In the following lesson, you will learn how to test the data layer of your springboard application,
and we will start with gpe entities.
Sprint framework allows us to test each layer of spring boot application separately if needed.
We can test the player of our application separately from surface layer and separately from data layer.
We can test surface layer in isolation from data layer and we can test data layer of our application
separately from web layer and separately from service layer.
In the following lectures, you will learn how to write integration tests to test data layer of your
springboard application separately from other layers.
When it comes to data layer, there are two components that we are going to test.
These are HP entity and GPA repository.
Deep Entity Object will describe information that we need to store in our database.
For example, if we need to store user details, then we will create a new user entity object and this
object will contain user details like user's first name, last name, email and password.
And you can think of this object as a regular Java object with member variables and gather and set our
methods.
But additionally to contain user details.
This object will also contain information about database table schema.
So what is it that we're going to test MGP entity?
Here's an example of GPA entity class.
And to make this class fit into the presentation slide, I have cut some of the details from it.
So don't be confused if you do not see something that you expect GPA entity to have.
But the truth is that it is not often that you will see developers write integration tests for GPA entities.
Many developers feel that test in GPA repositories is sufficient enough because if GPA entity has issues,
then most likely these issues will be caught during the GPA repository test.
But if needed, you can still SGP entity as well.
Now notice that this GPA entity class has a number variables annotated with some specific annotations.
For example, the ID field is annotated with ID annotation and generated value annotation and other
fields are annotated with column annotation.
And additionally to this column annotation, it has properties specified.
For example, user ID value cannot be null and must be unique and maximum lengths of the value that
the first name column can have is 50 characters, and the value of email address that each user record
can have in the database table must also be unique.
So let's assume that we have this user entity class at the time when our Springwood application starts
up, spring framework will scan packages of our application looking for classes with this kind of special
annotations and depending on what annotations are used in the class, spring framework will process
this class accordingly.
For example, for this user entity class spring framework will check if there is a database table with
the name users exist and this is because the class is annotated with table annotation and its name is
users.
If our database does not have a table called users, then Spring Framework will attempt to create this
table using the information specified in the column annotations.
So for this entity, class spring framework will create a new database table that is called users,
and this database table will have columns called ID, user ID, first name, last name, email and encrypted
password.
Each database table column will be created accordingly to information specified in the column annotation.
So as a developer, Hope works on a data layer in isolation from controllers or service classes.
You need to make sure that the data layer is created according to business requirements.
So what we can do is we can write test methods that validate these business requirements.
For example, one of the test methods that we can write for this GPA entity is to validate that our
database table does not allow duplicate values for user ID.
And if we try to persist user object with already existing user ID, then we should get back an exception
and another test method.
We can write this to validate that we cannot persist.
User object with duplicate email address.
So there are things that we can test in GP entity before we start working on a repository and in the
following lessons you will learn how to write this test methods.
To SDP entity objects or GP repositories.
We will need to annotate our class with data GPA test annotation.
Now there are a few important details about this annotation.
Like for example, this annotation will disable all the configuration and it will make Sprint framework
create application context only for GPA related components because we're testing only data layer.
Sprint framework will create application context with only GPA related bins.
Also, this annotation will make our test methods transactional, and once our test method completes,
all changes that were made to our database table will roll back and will be undone.
And another important detail is that we do not need to have database server running and configure database
connection to make our test method work by default.
Our test methods will work with embedded in memory database if needed.
We can of course use separate database server, but by default our test methods will use embedded in-memory
database and we do not need to make any additional configuration for it to work.
All right.
So let's continue and let's see how it works.